docs: symbiotic revision (#231)
moondance-labs/tanssi-docs: learn/tanssi/external-security-providers/symbiotic.md

        developers -- Launch --> networks
    end

    Vaults <--> Tanssi
    Tanssi <--> Validators
    Tanssi <--> Networks

>     classDef container fill:#424242, rx:5px, ry:5px;

Reviewer: Shouldn't it be in the css file?

Reviewer 2: Yes we tend to put all styling in the css file :)

Author: I didn't find a way to do this in the css, mermaid is pre rendering the diagrams, I think the correct way to do it is tuning a theme in mermaid. But I asume that's not a priority right now

Reviewer 2: @eshaben @dawnkelly09

### Vaults {: #vaults }

[Vaults](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/modules/vault/introduction){target=\_blank} are the Symbiotic protocol's economic backbone. They manage liquidity and deposits from restakers, connect operators, and networks and set up delegation strategies.

Vaults are programmable, and many vaults with different setups can coexist, each serving a different purpose. Vaults are managed by vault managers, who have the responsibility of deciding on critical matters such as:

> - **Accounting** - configure deposits, withdrawals, and how slashing event are handle. Each vault is tied to a specific asset that is used as collateral

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Accounting** - configure deposits, withdrawals, and how slashing events are handled. Each vault is tied to a specific asset that is used as collateral
```

### Vaults {: #vaults }

> [Vaults](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/modules/vault/introduction){target=\_blank} are the Symbiotic protocol's economic backbone. They manage liquidity and deposits from restakers, connect operators and networks and set up delegation strategies.

Reviewer: **Always use oxford commas**
```suggestion
[Vaults](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/modules/vault/introduction){target=\_blank} are the Symbiotic protocol's economic backbone. They manage liquidity and deposits from restakers, connect operators, and networks and set up delegation strategies.
```

Vaults are programmable, and many vaults with different setups can coexist, each serving a different purpose. Vaults are managed by curators, who have the responsibility of deciding on critical matters such as:

> - **Accounting**: curators configure deposits, withdrawals, and collateral slashing. Each vault is tied to a specific asset that is used as collateral.

Reviewer: Do curators  configure collateral slashing?  (Tanssi defines which offences are slashable)

Author: curators define if the vault will have slash veto or straight slashing, may be I can rephrase that to be more accurate.
Also I'm not 100% convinced in the curator term, is not used by symbiotic on theirs docs.

> - **Accounting**: curators configure deposits, withdrawals, and collateral slashing. Each vault is tied to a specific asset that is used as collateral.

Reviewer: Vaults can accept many different assets afaik
```suggestion
- **Accounting**: curators configure deposits, withdrawals, and collateral slashing. Curators also define which assets can be used as collateral in the vault.
```

Author: Not really,  each vault is limited to [one](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/modules/vault/introduction) IERC20
_Each vault has a predefined collateral token. The address of this token can be obtained via the collateral() method of the vault. The collateral token must satisfy the IERC20 interface ([see Collateral details](https://docs.symbiotic.fi/modules/collateral)). All the operations and accounting within the vault are performed only with the collateral token. However, the rewards given for the provided by the vault funds can be in different tokens. All the funds are represented in shares internally but the external interaction is done in absolute amounts of funds._

> - **Delegation Strategies** - curators define the delegation and restaking strategy across networks. For example, using a multi-operator and network strategy involves higher capital efficiency and risk.

Reviewer: ...strategy accross networks and operators? They define the delgation to networks AND operators in those networks afaik
Also, explain the example a bit better. Is that multi-operator with one network?

Author: Great, on a nutshell, there is a delegator contract that handles that responsibility, and the vault store a reference to that contract. 

Delegators use a system of limits to manage stake distribution:
Network Limits (NL): Maximum stake a network can receive
Operator Limits (OpL): Maximum stake an operator can receive within a network
Max Network Limits (mNL): Set by networks, indicating the maximum possible delegation they can accept.

This mean multiple thing, first any one could technically register to a vault, the opt in in the vault side is the modification to a value superior to 0 in the network limit and operator limit.
For example: I'm the owner of a vault of rETH with the corresponding delegator contract, Augusto could register in the network in a permissibleness way, and then I as a delegator could decide if he will have some stake assigned.
Let me know if I'm not being clear. 
Maybe I can re work this but my concern is getting to complex and technical

PD: multi operator one network would we a posible setup for a Tanssi vault, in that case we have only one network with stake assigned distributed across N operator.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b8a34023-9fd1-4690-9345-8991a9b3d5c7)

The slashing method receives a unique identifier for the operator's identity, the severity of the slash as a percentage of the operator's assigned stake in each vault, and the time context within which the offense occurred.

The slashing process consists of the following steps:

1. Slash Request - Tanssi sends the slash request to the `Middleware` with the parameters `operatorKey`, percentage, and epoch
2. Operator Validation - the `Middleware` validates the operator's identity and checks if the operator is eligible for slashing
3. Vault Iteration - the `Middleware` iterates through all active vaults during the offense epoch, skipping any inactive vaults
4. Retrieve Operator Stake - for each active vault, the Middleware retrieves the stake of the misbehaving operator
5. Calculate Slash Amount - the `Middleware` calculates the slashing amount by applying the slashed percentage to the operator's stake in each vault
6. Slashing - Depending on the vault's slashing implementation, there are two possible routes

>    6.1 Instant Slashing - if the vault uses instant slashing, the stake is immediately reduced

Reviewer: This sublist isn't rendering properly
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/a1f9cb14-69d6-476f-a76a-bdf2d6de91b8)

   6.2.1 Veto Slashing - if the vault uses veto slashing, the `Middleware` requests the slashing from a resolver. A time-limited veto window is created (e.g., 7 days)

>    6.2.2 Veto Process - if a resolver vetoes the request within the time window, the slashing is canceled. Otherwise, the slashing penalty is finalized if no veto occurs within the time window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   6.2.2 Veto Process - if a resolver vetoes the request within the time window, the slashing is canceled. Otherwise, the slashing penalty is finalized if no veto occurs within the time window
```

    tanssi -- Block Production Services--> Networks
    tanssi -- Security--> Networks
    tanssi -- Data Retrievability--> Networks

    class Symbiotic custom-container
```

### Rewards {: #rewards }

Well-behaved operators and restakers are rewarded for their participation with TANSSI tokens. The reward process consists of two main phases: [Reward Distribution Phase](#reward-distribution-phase) and [Reward Claiming Phase](#reward-claiming-phase).

> #### **Reward Distribution Phase** {: #reward-distribution-phase }

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Reward Distribution Phase {: #reward-distribution-phase }
```

> Well-behaved operators and restakers are rewarded for their participation with TANSSI tokens. The reward process consists of two main phases: [Reward Distribution Phase](#reward-distribution-phase) and [Reward Claiming Phase](#reward-claiming-phase).

Reviewer 3: Is there a specific reason for writing TANSSI that way? I'm asking simply to maintain consistency across the content page.

The reward distribution phase calculates and allocates rewards through five key steps involving operators, restakers, and smart contracts. The steps are:

1. **Reward Calculation** - Tanssi calculates rewards based on the activity of operators and stakers and then creates a [Merkle root](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree). This Merkle root is a cryptographic fingerprint that summarizes the reward allocations, indicating who receives what. Stakers are rewarded according to their stake in each vault

> 2. **Cross-Chain Messaging** - reward allocation data is sent using [XCM](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/interoperability/xcm/overview/) (Cross-Consensus Messaging), a standardized protocol for blockchain communication. [Snowbridge](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-snowbridge) acts as a trustless bridge between Tanssi and Ethereum

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. **Reward Data Sent via XCM** - reward allocation data is sent using [XCM](/builders/interoperability/xcm/overview/) (Cross-Consensus Messaging), a standardized protocol for blockchain communication. [Snowbridge](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-snowbridge) acts as a trustless bridge between Tanssi and Ethereum
```

We're highlighting cross-chain messaging here, but it doesn't mean much to me if I am looking at this for the first time and just trying to understand how rewards are distributed. I think the other valuable part to highlight is what is being sent via XCM

> 1. Reward Calculation - Tanssi calculates rewards based on the activity of operators and stakers and then creates a [Merkle root](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree). This Merkle root is a cryptographic fingerprint that summarizes the reward allocations, indicating who receives what. Stakers are rewarded according to their stake in each vault
> 2. Cross-Chain Messaging - reward allocation data is sent using [XCM](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/interoperability/xcm/overview/) (Cross-Consensus Messaging), a standardized protocol for blockchain communication. [Snowbridge](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-snowbridge) acts as a trustless bridge between Tanssi and Ethereum
> 3. Gateway - once the message is relayed to the `Gateway` contract, this contract serves as Tanssi's authorized entry point on Ethereum for the Snowbridge bridge
> 4. Middleware - the `Gateway` forwards the data to the [`Middleware`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/middleware/Middleware.sol), which is responsible for various tasks, including passing the information to the `OperatorReward` contract
> 5. OperatorRewards - this is the final destination for the data. The [`OperatorRewards`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/rewarder/ODefaultOperatorRewards.sol) contract stores the Merkle tree of the reward allocations and handles the transfer of reward tokens when a claim is made

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Reward Calculation** - Tanssi calculates rewards based on the activity of operators and stakers and then creates a [Merkle root](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Merkle_tree). This Merkle root is a cryptographic fingerprint that summarizes the reward allocations, indicating who receives what. Stakers are rewarded according to their stake in each vault
2. **Cross-Chain Messaging** - reward allocation data is sent using [XCM](https://docs.moonbeam.network/builders/interoperability/xcm/overview/) (Cross-Consensus Messaging), a standardized protocol for blockchain communication. [Snowbridge](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-snowbridge) acts as a trustless bridge between Tanssi and Ethereum
3. **`Gateway`** - once the message is relayed to the `Gateway` contract, this contract serves as Tanssi's authorized entry point on Ethereum for the Snowbridge bridge
4. **`Middleware`** - the `Gateway` forwards the data to the [`Middleware`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/middleware/Middleware.sol), which is responsible for various tasks, including passing the information to the `OperatorReward` contract
5. **`OperatorRewards`** - this is the final destination for the data. The [`OperatorRewards`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/rewarder/ODefaultOperatorRewards.sol) contract stores the Merkle tree of the reward allocations and handles the transfer of reward tokens when a claim is made
```

So the titles on the left should be in bold. When referring to a code element or contract name, also use backticks. I think this list might benefit by updating the titles to reflect what the step involves rather than who executes it

Another thing to note, it's okay to casually refer to the Operator Rewards contract as such, in two separate words, otherwise it should be `OperatorRewards` in back ticks

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Tanssi Network
    participant Snowbridge (XCM)
    participant Gateway Contract
    participant Middleware

>     participant OperatorRewards

Reviewer 4: These are all contracts so I'd drop "Contract" from "Gateway Contract" or add "Contract" at the end of each of these

>     Tanssi Network->>Tanssi Network: 1. Calculate rewards and Generate Merkle root

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    Tanssi Network->>Tanssi Network: 1. Calculate rewards and generate Merkle root
```

    Tanssi Network->>Snowbridge (XCM): 2. Send XCM message (Merkle root + data)
    Snowbridge (XCM)->>Gateway Contract: 3. Relay message
    Gateway Contract->>Middleware: 4. Propagate rewards data

>     Middleware->>OperatorRewards: 5. distributeRewards()

Reviewer 4: Not sure if it would look ok with back ticks here, but maybe try it out?  and use your best judgement on what looks best in diagrams

> 5. **`OperatorRewards`** - this is the final destination for the data. The [`OperatorRewards`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/rewarder/ODefaultOperatorRewards.sol) contract stores the Merkle tree of the reward allocations and handles the transfer of reward tokens when a claim is made

Reviewer 4: I made a comment on my previous review that I think got lost:

> I think this list might benefit by updating the titles to reflect what the step involves rather than who executes it

Contract addresses don't really matter to me, it's what is done at each step that matters and is what should be highlighted. I think when you're creating docs one of the things to consider is the scan-ability of the page. The items in bold on the left help users to scan the page quicker, so we have to make sure we're highlighting important information there that is information that can stand on it's own without additional context.

So maybe instead of `**Gateway**`, the text on the left should be `Receive Reward Data on Ethereum`. Instead of `**Middleware**`, maybe provide more info about what the middleware contract does aside from pass the message along, it's a little unclear based on the description why this contract even matters

```

> #### **Reward Claiming Phase** {: #reward-claiming-phase }

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Reward Claiming Phase {: #reward-claiming-phase }
```

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 4: There are black lines in this that are getting lost on the page, I almost missed them haha. This diagram is actually a little confusing to me, why is there a top row and bottom row with the same exact items on them?

In the reward-claiming phase, operators and stakers can claim rewards based on their participation in the network. Tanssi determines the share distribution for operators and stakers, currently setting it at 20% for operators and 80% for stakers.

1. Operator Claims - operators can claim their share by calling the `OperatorRewards` contract by using a cryptographic receipt that verifies their entitlement
2. Token Release - the operator call triggers the token release, and the `OperatorRewards` sends the established amount to the operator
3. Token Distribution Stakers - the remaining rewards are forwarded to the `StakerRewards` for further claiming of the staker

> 4. Staker Allocation - the remaining 80% of the rewards are automatically directed to the [`StakerRewards`](https://github.com/moondance-labs/tanssi-symbiotic/blob/main/src/contracts/rewarder/ODefaultStakerRewards.sol) contract, where stakers can claim rewards proportional to their stake in the vaults

Reviewer 4: Please update this list based on my comments in the previous section

> 3. **Token Distribution Stakers** - the remaining rewards are forwarded to the `StakerRewards` contract for further claiming of the staker

Reviewer 4: I think the title on the left can be updated. It seems like it's focused on an entity rather than an action. But it should focus on an action like the rest of the steps do

Reviewer 4: Maybe it just needs to be "Token Distribution to Stakers"?

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 4: Black lines in this diagram too that should be updated

Reviewer 4: Also same comment about it being unclear why the top row and bottom row are the exact same

sequenceDiagram
 participant Operator
 participant OperatorRewardsContract
 participant StakerRewardsContract
 participant Stakers

 Operator->>OperatorRewardsContract: 1. Claim rewards (Merkle proof)
 OperatorRewardsContract->>Operator: 2. Release rewards to the operator
 OperatorRewardsContract->>StakerRewardsContract: 3. Forward the remainder to StakerRewards
 Stakers->>StakerRewardsContract: 4. Claim individual rewards
```

### Slashing {: #slashing }

The Tanssi protocol implements slashing to penalize operators for misbehavior. When a slashing event is triggered, the authorities designated as resolvers by the vault managers can either accept or revert this action.

The following actions can trigger slashing events:

> 1. Producing Invalid Blocks (e.g., blocks that include invalid transactions)
> 2. Invalid Validation (e.g., double-signing or breaking protocol rules)
> 3. Downtime or Unavailability
> 4. Consensus Violations

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. Producing invalid blocks (e.g., blocks that include invalid transactions)
2. Invalid validation (e.g., double-signing or breaking protocol rules)
3. Downtime or unavailability
4. Consensus violations
```

> 
> 1. Producing invalid blocks (e.g., blocks that include invalid transactions)
> 2. Invalid validation (e.g., double-signing or breaking protocol rules)
> 3. Downtime or unavailability
> 4. Consensus violations

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

- Producing invalid blocks (e.g., blocks that include invalid transactions)
- Invalid validation (e.g., double-signing or breaking protocol rules)
- Downtime or unavailability
- Consensus violations
```

This list does not include sequential steps, so it should not be numbered. It should use bullet points instead.

!!!note
    Slashing events can only be triggered by operators' misbehavior within the Tanssi Network. Even if Tanssi networks are faulty or malicious, they operate in a sandboxed environment and cannot cause slashing.

> #### **Slashing Process** {: #slashing-process }

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Slashing Process {: #slashing-process }
```

> The slashing process follows a path similar to that of rewards. When a validator misbehaves, the Tanssi Network sends a slashing request message to the trustless bridge (Snowbridge). This process resembles the reward, where the message passes through the `Gateway` and into the `Middleware` where the slashing method gets called.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The slashing process follows a path similar to that of rewards. When a validator misbehaves, the Tanssi Network sends a slashing request message to the trustless bridge (Snowbridge). The message passes through the `Gateway` and into the `Middleware` where the slashing method gets called.
```

You already mentioned the path is similar to rewards, so we can clean this up to be more concise

The slashing method receives a unique identifier for the operator's identity, the severity of the slash as a percentage of the operator's assigned stake in each vault, and the time context within which the offense occurred.

The slashing process consists of the following steps:

> 1. **Slash Request** - Tanssi sends the slash request to the `Middleware` with the parameters `operatorKey`, percentage, and epoch

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
1. **Slash Request** - Tanssi sends the slash request to the `Middleware` with the parameters `operatorKey`, `percentage`, and `epoch`
```

Since these are all parameters defined by the contract, they should all be in back ticks

Reviewer 4: Maybe the title on the left should be "Slash Reported", Slash request sounds a little off because it's like someone is asking to be slashed haha

> 2. **Operator Validation** - the `Middleware` validates the operator's identity and checks if the operator is eligible for slashing

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
2. **Operator Validation** - the `Middleware` validates the operator's identity and checks if the operator is subject to slashing
```

> 3. **Vault Iteration** - the `Middleware` iterates through all active vaults during the offense epoch, skipping any inactive vaults

Reviewer 4: What's a higher-level title we could give this? Vault iteration for what? This as a standalone title doesn't make much sense

> 4. **Retrieve Operator Stake** - for each active vault, the Middleware retrieves the stake of the misbehaving operator

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
4. **Retrieve Operator Stake** - for each active vault, the `Middleware` retrieves the stake of the misbehaving operator
```

5. Calculate Slash Amount - the `Middleware` calculates the slashing amount by applying the slashed percentage to the operator's stake in each vault

> 6. Slashing - Depending on the vault's slashing implementation, there are two possible routes

Reviewer 4: Same comments on the list

Reviewer 4: Also watch capitalization of the first word in the description (to the right of the hypen) - the last item in this list uses capitalized "Depending"

    - **Instant Slashing** - if the vault uses instant slashing, the stake is immediately reduced

    - **Veto Slashing** - if the vault uses veto slashing, the `Middleware` requests the slashing from a resolver. A time-limited veto window is created (e.g., 7 days)
    If the resolver vetoes the request within the time window, the slashing is canceled. Otherwise, the slashing penalty is executed if no veto occurs within the time window

This process ensures that each vault's slashing is handled independently, preventing cross-contamination, and offers both instant and time-delayed slashing with dispute resolution mechanisms.

> ```mermaid

Reviewer 4: Same comments here as the other diagrams. The black lines should be fixed and the duplicate top row and bottom row are confusing, why are both needed?

Author: This is a convention in the sequences diagrams and that why mermaid use it as default, but I agree that is redundant, I will remove it from the diagrams, the issue is that involves inlining css, but all the other alternatives are not working.

sequenceDiagram
    participant Network
    participant Middleware
    participant Vault
    participant Slasher
    
    Network->>Middleware: 1. slash(operatorKey, percentage, epoch)
    Middleware->>Middleware: 2. Validate operator
    loop Each Active Vault
        Middleware->>Vault: 3. getOperatorStake()
        Vault-->>Middleware: 4. vaultStake
        Middleware->>Middleware: 5. Calculate slashAmount
        alt Instant Slasher
            Middleware->>Slasher: 6.1 slash(subnetwork, operator, amount)
        else Veto Slasher
            Middleware->>Slasher: 6.2 requestSlash(...)
            opt If Not Vetoed
                Slasher->>Slasher: 6.2 executeSlash()
            end
        end
    end
```

> #### **Burner** {: #burner }

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#### Burner {: #burner }
```

> The `Burner` contract is an extension responsible for handling actions that follow a [slashing event](#slashing-process), notably the burning of slashed collateral. Once a slash is executed, the Slasher contract calls the `Burner` to carry out these post-slashing tasks.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The `Burner` contract is an extension responsible for handling actions that follow a [slashing event](#slashing-process), notably the burning of slashed collateral. Once a slash is executed, the `Slasher` contract calls the `Burner` to carry out these post-slashing tasks.
```

Is Slasher the name of a specific contract?

Within the protocol, the `Burner` contract plays a crucial role in deciding what happens after slashing. While there are different ways to implement the burning process, the recommended approach is to burn the slashed assets.
When a slash is executed, the `Burner` contract's `onSlash` function is activated. This function kicks off the process of burning the slashed assets.

The vault manager chooses the specific implementation of the burning process during the vault's initialization phase, and once set, the vault manager cannot modify it. The exact design of the `Burner` contract may differ depending on the type of collateral asset involved. Below are some potential implementation options:

> - **Burning Tokens** - If the slashed collateral is a regular `ERC-20` token, the `Burner` destroys those tokens, permanently removing them from circulation

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Burning Tokens** - If the slashed collateral is a regular ERC-20 token, the `Burner` destroys those tokens, permanently removing them from circulation
```

> - **Unwrapping and Burning** - If the slashed tokens represent something like staked assets (e.g., liquid staking tokens) or liquidity provider (LP) tokens from a decentralized exchange (`DEX`), the `Burner` might convert them back into their original form before burning them

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Unwrapping and Burning** - If the slashed tokens represent something like staked assets (e.g., liquid staking tokens) or liquidity provider (LP) tokens from a decentralized exchange (DEX), the `Burner` might convert them back into their original form before burning them
```

> - **Cross-Chain Operations** - If the tokens are tied to assets on another blockchain, the `Burner` could unwrap them on Ethereum and trigger the burn process on the original network

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Cross-Chain Operations** - if the tokens are tied to assets on another blockchain, the `Burner` could unwrap them on Ethereum and trigger the burn process on the original network
```

> - **Alternative Handling** -  Sometimes, burning isn't the best option. Instead, the `Burner` might redistribute the slashed assets to other operators, compensate affected users, or lock them in liquidity pools—whatever the system is designed to do

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Alternative Handling** - sometimes, burning isn't the best option. Instead, the `Burner` might redistribute the slashed assets to other operators, compensate affected users, or lock them in liquidity pools—whatever the system is designed to do
```

> - **Alternative Handling** -  sometimes, burning isn't the best option. Instead, the `Burner` might redistribute the slashed assets to other operators, compensate affected users, or lock them in liquidity pools—whatever the system is designed to do

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- **Alternative Handling** - sometimes, burning isn't the best option. Instead, the `Burner` might redistribute the slashed assets to other operators, compensate affected users, or lock them in liquidity pools—whatever the system is designed to do
```

The slashing process consists of the following steps:

1. **Slash Reported** - Tanssi sends the slash request to the `Middleware` with the parameters `operatorKey`, `percentage`, and `epoch`
2. **Operator Validation** - the `Middleware` validates the operator's identity and checks if the operator is subject to slashing
3. **Retrieve Active Vaults** - the `Middleware` iterates through all active vaults during the offense epoch, skipping any inactive vaults
4. **Retrieve Operator Stake** - for each active vault, the `Middleware` retrieves the stake of the misbehaving operator
5. **Calculate Slash Amount** - the `Middleware` calculates the slashing amount by applying the slashed percentage to the operator's stake in each vault
6. **Slashing** - depending on the vault's slashing implementation, there are two possible routes

    - **Instant Slashing** - if the vault uses instant slashing, the stake is immediately reduced

    - **Veto Slashing** - if the vault uses veto slashing, the `Middleware` requests the slashing from a resolver. A time-limited veto window is created (e.g., 7 days)

>     The slashing is canceled if the resolver vetoes the request within the time window. Otherwise, the slashing penalty is executed if no veto occurs within the time window

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

    The slashing is canceled if the resolver vetoes the request within the time window. Otherwise, the slashing penalty is executed if no veto occurs within the time window
```

Without the line break, this is appended to the end of the above bullet point

    tanssi -- Block Production Services--> Networks
    tanssi -- Security--> Networks
    tanssi -- Data Retrievability--> Networks

>     classDef container fill:#424242, rx:5px, ry:5px;

Reviewer: Same comment as before, shouldn't it be moved to the css file?

    class Symbiotic container
```

### Rewards {: #rewards }

Well-behaved operators and restakers receive rewards for participating in TANSSI tokens. The reward process has two phases.

#### Reward Distribution Phase

> The reward distribution process begins within the Tanssi Network, where rewards for operators and stakers are calculated, and a Merkle root is generated to represent the reward allocations cryptographically. This data is packaged into an XCM message and transmitted to the Gateway Contract on Ethereum via Snowbridge, a cross-chain communication protocol. The Gateway Contract verifies the message’s origin from Tanssi and propagates the reward data to the Middleware. The Middleware forwards the validated reward parameters to the ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract, finalizing the on-chain distribution without storing data or performing additional validation. This phase leverages Tanssi’s cross-chain infrastructure to ensure tamper-proof reward initialization.

Reviewer: What is a merkle root? are we explaining that somewhere else? Also, link XCM to the articles where we explain it.

> The reward distribution process begins within the Tanssi Network, where rewards for operators and stakers are calculated, and a Merkle root is generated to represent the reward allocations cryptographically. This data is packaged into an XCM message and transmitted to the Gateway Contract on Ethereum via Snowbridge, a cross-chain communication protocol. The Gateway Contract verifies the message’s origin from Tanssi and propagates the reward data to the Middleware. The Middleware forwards the validated reward parameters to the ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract, finalizing the on-chain distribution without storing data or performing additional validation. This phase leverages Tanssi’s cross-chain infrastructure to ensure tamper-proof reward initialization.

Reviewer: In general, this paragraph is a bit hard to digest. There are a lot of technical terms that we don't explain, and the reader probably doesn't know about: gateway contract, snowbridge, ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract, etc
Try to keep it in general concept terms and link to specific sections with deeper explanations, or add the content here.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Tanssi Network
    participant Snowbridge (XCM)
    participant Gateway Contract
    participant Middleware
    participant ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract

    Tanssi Network->>Tanssi Network: 1. Calculate rewards
    Tanssi Network->>Tanssi Network: 2. Generate Merkle root
    Tanssi Network->>Snowbridge (XCM): 3. Send XCM message (Merkle root + data)
    Snowbridge (XCM)->>Gateway Contract: 4. Relay message
    Gateway Contract->>Middleware: 5. Propagate rewards data
    Middleware->>ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract: 6. distributeRewards()
```

#### Reward Claiming Phase

> Once rewards are allocated, operators initiate claims by submitting Merkle proofs to the ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract, which enforces an automated 80/20 split: 20% of the claimed rewards are distributed directly to the operator, while 80% are routed to the dedicated ODefaultStakerRewardsContract. Through vault-based share calculations, stakers subsequently claim their proportional shares from the latter contract. This phase emphasizes decentralized, self-custodial access, with smart contracts autonomously executing the reward split and ensuring atomic settlement.

Reviewer: This paragraph is also a bit hard to digest

Author: gocha

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant Operator
    participant ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract
    participant ODefaultStakerRewardsContract
    participant Stakers

    Operator->>ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract: 1. Claim rewards (Merkle proof)
    ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract->>Operator: 2. Distribute 20% operator share
    ODefaultOperatorRewardsContract->>ODefaultStakerRewardsContract: 3. Forward 80% staker allocation
    Stakers->>ODefaultStakerRewardsContract: 4. Claim individual rewards
```

### Slashing {: #slashing }

The Tanssi protocol implements veto-slashing to penalize bad actors' misbehavings. These are the actions that cause slashing events:

1. Producing Invalid Blocks (blocks including invalid transactions, for example)
2. Invalid Validation (double-signing or breaking protocol rules, for example).
3. Downtime or Unavailability
4. Consensus Violations

When a veto-slashing event is triggered, the authorities designated as resolvers by the vault managers can accept or revert this action.

> Consider that slashing events can only be triggered by operators' misbehavings in the Tanssi Network itself. Tanssi networks, even if faulty or malicious, run in a sandboxed environment and can not cause slashing.

Reviewer: I'd leave this as a note. This topic is way too important to vault managers.
